so you've got GitHub co-pilot congrats
co-pilot can help you level up your
skills as a developer in ways that you
probably thought were not possible
seriously but now that you've got it
where do you start how does it work what
do you need to learn we're going to
answer all of that in this video and I
think you'll find that once you know how
and where to use co-pilot it is pretty
simple to dramatically increase your
speed and productivity almost
immediately The Secret of GitHub
co-pilot is that there isn't anything
special that you need to do to learn how
to interact with it all you have to do
to use GitHub co-pilot is code that's it
just code like you normally would and
watch the AI go to work this is called
ghost text and it's automatically turned
on when you install the extension and
log in to GitHub co-pilot you can verify
that co-pilot is active by checking for
the GitHub co-pilot icon down here in
your status bar and if you want to turn
co-pilot off for a specific file or
language click on this icon and you can
disable it you can also trigger ghost
text by writing a comment expressing
what you want to accept a ghost text
completion press tab if you only want
part of the ghost text you can just hold
down the controller command keys and
press the right arrow to accept as much
or little of it as you want and you can
hit Escape at any time to dismiss the
ghost text you can do a lot with just
ghost text and you'll find that co-pilot
is remarkably good at anticipating your
next move and doing a lot of the work
for you for example if I create a
variable called nums co-pilot gives me
what I probably want based on the name
of the variable and the function in the
file already an array of numbers and if
I press in or below the function it
assumes that I want to call the function
and pass in the nums variable which is
exactly what I want now ghost text may
give you what you want or it may be a
close and almost but a Miss in that that
case you can see some alternative
Suggestions by pressing the control or
command and inner keys this opens up a
side panel where you can see more
suggestions from the AI that you might
like better the other way that you can
use GitHub co-pilot right in your code
is to chat with it directly right here
using something that's called inline
chat this can be triggered with the
control or command and I Keys none of
this code actually exists in your file
until you accept it so if you hit Escape
it will all just go away no harm no foul
inl chat is great for iterating on your
code right in line so for instance here
perhaps we want to return a static file
at this route instead of what co-pilot
gave us so we can highlight the block
and iterate on that with inline chat and
inline chat always gives you a diff view
showing you what's been added and
changed so that you can be sure that
this is what you want before you accept
it GitHub co-pilot also features a more
traditional dedicated chat area in the
sidebar that you can access by clicking
on the chat icon if you've ever used
another AI chat before this will feel
very familiar while ghost text and
inlight chat are good for helping you
code faster chat is good for helping you
solve problems and make decisions
quicker it is terrific for brainstorming
and figuring out implementation details
you can always customize where the chat
appears in your editor so for instance
if you'd like to see your code and your
project files in the chat all at the
same time you can click on the secondary
sidebar icon and just drag the chat into
that sidebar all of your chats are saved
to a history that you can access at any
time with the history icon at the top of
the chat there are a few other places
that you'll find GitHub co-pilot and it
can be quite useful one of them is when
you have a problem in your code you'll
find GitHub co-pilot here in the light
bulb or quick suggestion menu where it
can explain and often even fix your
errors right in line co-pilot is
extremely good at fixing silly mistakes
and explaining compiler errors that
otherwise make no sense you'll also find
GitHub co-pilot anywhere that you see
this sparkle icon this includes places
like the terminal and anywhere that
GitHub co-pilot might be able to help
you out all you have to do is keep your
eye out for the Sparkle and when you see
it give it a click and see what copilot
can do for you right then and there and
believe it or not that's it you now know
the essentials of how to interact with
GitHub co-pilot go forth and see how
much better life can be as a developer
and make sure you check out our other
videos on GitHub co-pilot for all your
AI coding needs happy coding
